- In a microservices architecture,
the interservice communications
can be a source of freedom for growth,
but it can also be a source of great pain.
I want to spend a little time
looking at the network traffic
that takes place in a microservices-based system
and focus on some of these potential pains.
All communications between individual services
in a microservices architecture is over HTTP using ReST.
This communication framework allows any service
to be developed using any coding language
or framework that supports ReSTful services.
Each service can consume any other service
over the same communication strategy.
This strategy, as previously mentioned,
is called protocol-aware heterogeneous interoperability.
In a nutshell, this explains that the services are bound
to a protocol, in this case HTTP,
and execute communication over that protocol
in a way that works in a mixed,
or heterogeneous, environment.
This has a lot of power when we get down to it.
The development team is often composed
of developers with many different skillsets.
You may have backend developers working in Java or C+.
You may have front-end developers working in JavaScript
with NodeJS.
You may also have data scientists working in Python.
The beauty of a microservices architecture
is that each team member can build the services
in a language native to them,
and then expose those services for others
to consume using ReST.
Other teams that need to consume those services
need to have zero knowledge of how the services
themselves work, nor they need to learn
some special communication technology.
They simply leverage ReST the same way they would
if they were calling their own services.
This emphasizes one of the primary problems
this architecture tries to solve, and that is agility.
The agility of this model comes from each team
working in a language and framework that is natural to them.
They can deliver code quickly
because they aren't constrained by artificial boundaries
imposed by the rules of the architecture pattern.
Every modern system leverage ReST.
The same cannot be said
for communication protocols like SOAP.
As the teams work in their own domain
as effeciently as possible, they deliver code quicker.
Once the code is delivered, they expose the contract
so others can consume the services just as quickly,
because there is no learning curve.
Now this communications dance
does come with problems.
We are going to spend some time talking about them
in depth as they can quickly sour the system as a whole.
But for now, we will simply acknowledge that they exist.
In this model, at least in its purest form,
each service is capable of calling
any other service in the system.
There are no constraints on who can call what,
which means orchestration is key.
Each service must maintain a certain level
of passivity in their APIs
or there's a risk of system failure.
Because any service can call any other service,
there is no clear delineation of who is calling you.
You must either have a solid versioning strategy
or maintain perfectly passive APIs
to prevent calling systems from failing
when you release a new version of your API.
In a monolithic infrastructure,
breaking API changes are usually more apparent
than in a microservices architecture.
So you need to stay focused on this issue from day one.
I recommend a solid version and strategy,
along with strong passivity rules,
to prevent this from becoming
a major concern in your system.
Ultimately, enhance your knowledge of this dance
and you will be much more equipped
to handle the issues when they do arise.